What do you think about Ernest Becker and, uh, those guys that put,
put death at the, what is it? The warm at the core, which, uh,
as the main thing, the main,
like this confrontation of our own mortality, first of all,
being understandable, I mortal and then confront the terror of it.
The, the fear of it as the creative,
like trying to escape the fear of death as the creative force
of human society.
So like the reason we do anything is because we're just running away from our
death scared. Hmm. Uh,
do you find some of that to be true? First of all, as a,
somebody who looks in the mirror looks at yourself and your own as a human being
two,
just looking at society today and three at this whole big spread
of human history and all the cool stuff we've created,
including the mysteries of eucs.
I wonder what life would look like in the absence of the fear of our mortality.
I wonder how we'd interact with one another.
If there was relatively little or no fear of death, I,
I really do when it comes to Becker's work and others, um,
if the ancients were known for anything, it was running to death,
it was the opposite. In fact, dying before dying, which is the imortality key,
by the way, it's not psychedelics point. When I, when I refer to this key,
I'm referring to this notion that's preserved in Greek, on Bethany.
If you die before you die, you won't die.
When you die. For some reason,
the ancients prized that experience. And we talked about the,
of, of sophism and COism and Christian mysticism, where you have this,
the same self nodding, this death before death, the divine nothingness, right?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> for some reason, the mystic saints,
visionaries and ancient philosophers, they ran to death.
And the one message I wanted to try and communicate with this book is how they
viewed, um, that it can only be fully experienced,
fully embodied in the wake of a really intense,
perhaps terrifying, but utterly transformational encounter with death.
So running to death, not running away from death.